The President:
Over the last few months, I've
been talking about a choice we
face as a country.
We can either settle for an
economy where a few people do
really well and everybody
else struggles to get by,
or we can build an economy
where hard work pays off again,
Where everyone gets a fair shot.
Everyone does their fair share.
And everyone plays
by the same rules.
That's up to us.
And today, I want to talk to you
about the idea that everyone in
this country should
do their fair share.
Now, if this were
a perfect world,
we'd have unlimited resources --
no one would ever have to pay
any taxes and we could
spend as much as we wanted.
But we live in
the real world --
we don't have
unlimited resources.
We have a deficit that
needs to be paid down.
And we also have to pay for
investments that will help our
economy grow and keep our
country safe: Education;
research and technology;
a strong military;
and retirement programs like
Medicare and Social Security.
That means we have
to make choices.
When it comes to paying down the
deficit and investing in our
future, should we ask middle-class
Americans to pay even more
at a time when their budgets
are already stretched to the
breaking point?
Or should we ask some of the
wealthiest Americans to pay
their fair share?
That's the choice.
Over the last decade, we've
spent hundreds of billions of
dollars on what was supposed to
be a temporary tax cut for the
wealthiest 2% of Americans.
Now we're scheduled to spend
almost $1 trillion more.
Today, the wealthiest Americans
are paying taxes at one of the
lowest rates in 50 years.
Warren Buffett is paying a
lower rate than his secretary.
Meanwhile, over
the last 30 years,
the tax rates for middle-class
families have barely budged.
That's not fair.
It doesn't make any sense.
Do we want to keep giving
tax breaks to the wealthiest
Americans -- folks like myself
or Warren Buffett or Bill Gates,
people who don't need them
and never asked for them?
Or do we want to keep investing
in the things that will grow our
economy and keep us secure?
Because we can't
afford to do both.
Now, some people call
this class warfare.
But I think asking a billionaire
to pay at least the same tax
rate as his secretary
is just common sense.
We don't envy success in this
country; we aspire to it.
But we also believe that anyone
who does well for themselves
should do their fair share in
return so that more people have
the opportunity to get
ahead -- not just a few.
That's the America I believe
in, and in the next few weeks,
members of Congress will
get a chance to show you
where they stand.
Congress is going to vote on
what's called the Buffett Rule.
If you make more than
$1 million a year,
you should pay at least the same
percentage of your income in
taxes as middle-class
families do.
On the other hand, if you
make under $250,000 a year --
like 98% of American
families do --
your taxes shouldn't go up.
You're the ones struggling with
the rising cost of everything
from college tuition
to groceries.
You're the ones who
deserve a break.
So every member of Congress
is going to go on record.
And if they vote to keep on
giving tax breaks to people like
me -- tax breaks our
country can't afford --
then they're going to have
to explain to you where that
money comes from.
Either it's going to add to our
deficit or it's going to come
out of your pocket.
Seniors will have to pay more
for their Medicare benefits.
Students will see their interest
rates go up at a time when they
can't afford it.
Families who are scraping by
will have to do more because the
richest Americans
are doing less.
That's not right.
That's not who we are.
In America, our story has never
been about what we can do by
ourselves -- it's about
what we can do together.
It's about believing in our
future and the future of
this country.
So tell your members of
Congress to do the right thing.
Call them up; write them a
letter; pay them a visit.
And tell them to stop giving tax
breaks to people who don't need
them and start investing in the
things that will help grow our
economy and put
people back to work.
That's how we'll make this
country a little fairer,
a little more just, and
a whole lot stronger.
Thanks.